the tale of why and how I re-wrote an aging Java-based customer & order management system in Python and how the
same feature set was implemented using only one 10th of the code base.

If it ain't broke, don't fix it. During Christmas in the year of our Lord 2007, I wrote a simple customer and order
management system using what I found to be cool technology at the time: Java 6, iBatis (persistence framework),
Tomcat 6 (application server), MySQL (database), Debian Linux (operating system) and (deep breath) JSP (templating),

After 1-2 weeks of coding, I had something that was usable and, after some initial bug fixing after going live in
January, it ran happily without any maintenance or supervision of any kind for 7 years. The only time it wasn't
available, was when there was a power outage in the server room.

The customer was happy and the story could have ended here. But something made the system to be completely re-written
 after 7 years of blissful existence. What was it?

Change. The customer wanted new features. Which meant picking up the development and, lo and behold, I discovered how
outdated the system had gotten when looking at it again through the goggles of 2014. The architecture was pure RPC
over HTTP, JSPs was such an old technology it's wasn't even fun thinking about it, MySQL had gone from being a hip
and cool Open Source database to being a crippled step child of Oracle, but worst of all: some of the technology,
most notably iBATIS, wasn't supported anymore. Not supported meant no security updates, outdated documentation,
a shrinking user base and last but not least: the sad feeling of missing out on all the fun stuff happening in the
world.

The obvious choice. There was a fork of iBATIS available called MyBatis but using it meant making changes to both my
code and build setup, so I started looking somewhere else. Having used Java as my main programming language at work
for more than 10 years, the natural choice seemed to be the now nicely standardized and usable JPA for persistence
with the rest of the JEE7 stack for the other building blocks: Java 7, JAX-RS (REST framework) and JSF, Rich Faces
or Wicket (templating).

After a month or two of hacking away at this evenings and weekends, I had something that worked and was Java wise
nicely layered, object oriented, de-coupled, unit testable and so on. It was just not fun.

python

And programming should be fun. Especially when working for free on open source projects like this system. So I
asked myself, what would I prefer programming in? In which language and on what platform would I have the most fun
programming in while at the same time being able to quickly add new features? Although I'm a huge fan of BASH, I did
admit that it wasn't ideal for developing a rich web based order management system. My choice was then easy,
it had to be Python.

I've always been very fond of Python ever since learning it in university but I quickly moved away from it in favor
of BASH for writing command line programs as BASH is always available on all kinds of UNIX and Linux variants
(exception being HP-UX). For larger applications, my work has always been Java related, so Python has continued to
sit quietly in my toolbox, waiting for the task at hand being right for it. And now it finally was.

What a joy
And what a wonderful relief it was to start programming in Python! Just like coming home. I like programming in Python
so much because its programming model maps so well with the way I think. There's so many thing that just feels right.
Natural.

emacs

Another nice welcome was to find how excellent support Emacs has for Python. There's many Python plugins to choose from.
I settled for anaconda-mode, which together with pyflake and other great plugins I already use, like flymake,
auto-complete-mode and projectile, give me everything I could ever wish for when coding: auto completion, on the fly
syntax checking, code navigation, interactive shell for prototyping and documentation lookup.

And there was more to be rejoice about. Lots. Like Flask. It's a lightweight web framework which is just wonderful to
work with. It's blissfully free of bloat or half thought out ideas, incomplete documentation or patchy libraries that
haunt so many other frameworks. You know, the frameworks which let's you easily do mundane tasks, but don't scale up
to world applications. Your applications. I cannot recommend you enough to try out Flask. It's strikes an impressive
balance between simplicity and feature richness.

Another affable acquaintance was that of Jinja. It's templating done right. Again striking a good balance between
being easy to use and having all the features you need to cover all your project needs. As an example of how well
behaved Jinja is, take a look at this error message after I did something illegal in Jinja.